---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
History of Open Source

## Cathedral vs. Bazaar
The difference between the two is the approach taken on software development. In the Cathedral model, one builds the software like a cathedral, with the solid foundation built and go in with a plan. How the desired final product looks like is considered before hand, and everything is built around that ideal. The bazaar model on the other hand, is when one treats development like a busy bazaar. Everyone can contribute by throwing ideas around, and the noise and diversity the bazaar brings ends up being its greatest strength. While is is nice to have the image of the cathedral beforehand, I think I would rather have the bazaar model because if there is some how a serious design issue with the cathedral in the beginning or problems with its foundation, it ends up being a lot of work to fix it when a lot of resources have already been commited. Even if there are no design issues, the ideology and need of the produt may change mid-development as well, which can be a problem.

## Lessons
### 1. Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.
This is saying that every good software originated by attempting to solve the developers disapointment with the current available solutions. In the case of the essay, the author was frustrated with the current mailing app he was using, so he decided to write a better one himself.

### 12. Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.
Sometimes the best way to approach a problem is not one's original perception of the problem description. This can be illustrated by the understanding of light. Originally, people thought light was a particle, and there were many problems that could not be explained with this model. However, as people proposed that light might be a wave, many possibilities opened up. Sometimes the solution is simple when considered from a different perspective.

## Free vs. Open Source
Both terms describe a similar development environment for software. However, "free" as in "freedom" can be ambiguous to some people, since in English "free" can also mean free of charge. While open source software are often free to use, it is not the ideology that drives the development. Another difference, perhaps also due to the multiple meanings "free" has in English, is that free seems to have a moral argument attached to it, while open source is purely about the development ideology. Like the article mentioned, before OSI this was not very clear.

## Team Project
This week I have found a typo while looking through a script file and have made a quick fix. I was looking at the script for another issue they have listed, and I will be going back to that next week. I still have to go through the process of making the pull request work properly with the repository, and I ran into some troubles. I have learned some practical things about git about how to keep the workspace clean.
