---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


My first entry(yay)!

### Open Source
When I hear  the term "open source", I tend to think of the software smaritans on the internet put out for free to the convenience of other people. I was most liekly influence by the fact that I started off as a user of open source software, like many other people.

The advantage of open source over closed souce is that the source code is available to be viewed legally. This is transparency is important if you want to know what exactly the code does. It also allows the user to alter the code to their own benefit if necessary.

Some potential problem with open souce might include:  
* Conflicting Interests
  * When multiple contributors are making their own changes to the project, sometimes they might end up with incompatible or even conflicting ideas
* Anyone can use  
  * Since anyone can use it, the software can cause a great deal of harm if someone used it in a malicious way
 
Personally, I decided to register for this open source class since I wanted to learn more about open source, and to get some practical experience working on an open source project.

### Projects:
1. uBlock Origin  
A typical ad-block plug-in for web browsers. Very nice to have when browsing certain websites. I use it to skip the annoying ads. Alternatives include Ad-Blocker.

2. OpenOffice  
OpenOffice is a free word processor program that was a competitor for Microsoft Word, though apparently it was been mostly discontinued. Using it in primary school was the very first time I encountered an open source software, along with the Ubuntu operating system it was run on. I used it to write an essay. Alternatives include Google Docs and Microsoft Word.

3. OBS Studio  
OBS (Open Broadcaster Software) Studio is a "free and open source software for live streaming and screen recording". I use it when I want to record something im doing on my computer, or when I want to live stream something I'm doing. Alternatives might include xSplit Broadcaster.

4. Eclipse Java IDE  
Eclipse is an open source Java IDE. I use it for all my Java programming assignments at NYU. ALternatives might include NetBeans.
