---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

Mozilla presentation and contributing to first project.

## Mozilla presentation
The presentation by Christos Bacharakis from Mozilla Foundation was fairly interesting. I've gained some insight into some of the project Mozilla is involved in other than just FireFox, which was the only thing I knew about Mozilla. The most interesting and surprising thing I learned from the presentation was how Facebook gathered data from websites for their use, and how FireFox blocks this. 

In light of this, Mozilla's mission "to ensure the Internet is a global public resource, open and accessible to all. An Internet that truly puts people first, where individuals can shape their own experience and are empowered, safe and independent" (from their website) makes a lot of sense. As a fellow user of the web, I would want transparency on different aspects of my internet experience. However, while this goal is great and benefitial for people using Internet, it seems to be the type of goal that may never be fully reached, and takes incredible perseverence to take on. Optimism that the goal is completely achieveable seems far-fetched.

## Blockly
### Licensing
Blockly is distributed under the Apache 2.0 License. Under this license, one:
1. Can use the software for commercial purposes
2. Can modify the code
3. Can distribute the code
4. Can use and modify the code privately
5. Is granted a patent rights from contributors

The license does NOT grant:
1. Trademark rights
2. Warranty
3. Liability from any contributor

However, along with these benefits, users must:
1. Include a copy of the license and copyright notice with the software
2. Document any changes made to the software

### Installing Environment
Installing the environment was relatively easy. All I needed to do was download all the files and that was it. The instruction said "point your browser at demos/fixed/index.html", which was somewhat confusing to me at first, but I figured it must mean to open that file in the browser. At first I opened it in Safari, which was supposed to work, but came up blank on the non-text parts. Everything did work in FireFox, though. 
