---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---
Cathedral and Bazaar

## Cathedral and the Bazaar Lessons
### Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away.
This is saying that the best designs are both elegant and simple, and as efficient as their more verbose counterparts. I think this is very true. A better design should always be just as effective as the next best alternative, and when the specific design is so compact that there is nothing else to simplify, it should be considered perfect.

### When your language is nowhere near Turing-complete, syntactic sugar can be your friend.
It's helpful to write code in syntax that is more similar in English, rather than make it extremely simplified but cryptic. I also agree with this. When a project is huge, and not everyone knows every part of the code, making the code easier to understand for new eyes looking at it can speed up debugging and development, especially in an open-source setting.

## Favourite Lesson
My favourite lesson from "Cathedral and the Bazaar" id probably "Often, the most striking innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong." It resonates with me the most because I've seen this in practice repeatedly throughout the years. For example, in probability, some problems are significantly easier when you consider the inverse - what is the chance of the event NOT happeneing. I also think its important because sometimes it is very difficult to look at the problem from a different persepctive, even though it could prove to be very helpful.

## Team Project
This week I took a deeper look at one of the issues we identified. I have an idea on how to fix the issue, and will be implementing it soon and hopefully make a pull request by the middle of next week. I learned a bit more about Javascript, specifically syntax and properties like how there's no real class in Javascript and how abstract class works there. Next week I want to find something bigger that my team can work on together, and look for more small issues to work on in addition to finishing this current issue.
